This was an interview with a developer advocate on a plane flight from Portland to SF.

AR Cloud?

I see it as a combination of inside-out and outside-in tracking. That is to say data is collected from devices you're carrying, and from devices in the world that are observing you. There's going to be an IOT data exhaust of nearby devices and this will all need to be integrated and processed seamlessly in order for you to be able to derive real value from that data.

For example you could be at a store and you pull out your phone and it connects to local devices in the area, infrared devices, any nearby self-driving cars and suchlike - and perhaps it can answer questions for you such as parking availability or busyness of the area.

Silicon Valley types of people talk about creating a new Internet - and obviously the cloud doesn't really exist - it's just computers at a colocation facility. But we could have a fluid or liquid Internet of connections directly peer to peer. Many of us have very powerful home coputers that could contribute to cloud like computing. This distributed computing system could become the norm - an ecosystem of fluid data - the data relative to the area you are in. Computing power that you need at low latency could be close to you physically. For example many cars have stupidly powerful GPUs - they could be doing additional work. The constraints are mostly economic - how do participants get paid? IOTA and other IOT cryptocurrencies could solve the economics of this. Even a modern fridge has a decent GPU in it.

Circling back to IOTA - it's clear that some kind of next generation crypto is needed. We need clearing houses for IOT data aggregation. For example if you wanted to build your own bird call sensor in your yard - there could be economic incentives that finance you doing so (it benefits your neighbors in a small way). Or you may have more clear business related concerns such as increasing the intelligence of a global parts supply warehouse so that replacement parts can show up just in time. These kinds of services imply brokerages, and smart IOT devices that can publish to those brokerages. This systems level infrastructure becomes more like a living organism - and it implies a shift towards distributive computing rather than centralized computing (as the cloud is today). We see other hints of computing moving in both directions, unexpectedly towards the edge and unexpectedly towards the center. On the other side of the coin NVidia offers a streaming service for video games where a server farm does all the hard calculations and you get frames over the net - NVidia claims this is good enough for e-sports.

How do you evaluate what is worth doing or not?

In general I'm fascinated by jungian psychology, archetypical myth, how do we work as humans, even philosophical contrarians such as Jordan Peterson. Especially interested in diverse views interogating reality, questioning the assumptions we have. The policy I have is to try live with integrity, you can look for signifiers or signs that show you're doing the right thing; similar to the process of finding what you're passionate about. Steve Jobs used grandiose mythological archetypes to set major goals even if the day to day minutae was more pragmatic. Ultimately we are speaking to the human experience of pain and suffering. Allievaiting suffering is a value - respecting that some painful experiences provide growth and compassion. Ultimately meaning is what we create and we were bodies before we were brains; our experience is grounded in our bodies. Without constant goals to attain there is a sense of stuckness and the goal is the journey.

In a more strict design reality sense I'm constantly always inviting diverse groups of people together to help do edge thinking, for their fresh thoughts, and novel critical perspective. For me the goal is to inspire people to build tech that is human - not just nerd geek tech. Bringing together people from many diverse backgrounds seems to be the best way to get coverage of a topic - artists, philsophoers, medical practicioners and suchlike. Technology is going to be part of all of our lives and if we are engaged with it we can make it sweet. I see some fear around technological change and I feel we need more than just techies to help define our technology.

Privacy?

Data is the new currency, only the wealthy will be able to afford privacy and this will mean a poor quality of life for many. Privacy should be a right, not an afterthought - watching every website update their privacy policy due to changes in European laws at the last minute is hilarious... they had months to do this. It's clear that it is a low priority concern for many providers. Some of us can afford to pay for ad-free experiences, not everybody can or will want to. The kind of data that can be tracked is astounding. Biometric smart watches check heart rate, headsets can report how a person responses to a situation, where their gaze is focused. It is perhaps trendy to say the blockchain supports privacy because with anonymous tokens being sufficient to prove value then some form of distributed ledger can reduce need for identity. We need identity to be able to make somebody pay up - and when escrow is provable without having to have lawyers, police and judges then some of the pressure on identity is reduced. Also there's a possibility that the blockchaibn would let you have an encrypted digital identity. Things such as home ownership deeds and other earned rights and privileges could be shared only with other people who have the right keys. Potentially you could have control over what others can see.  Some people may want to sell their data like selling their blood - for extra money. I sold plasma once and it was a very weird experience - perhaps in the future selling our data will feel the same way.

What are pain points in user online digital experience today?

The way you have to switch between many apps to try solve one problem is cumbersome and non functional. Apps in general have a shitty user experience. Many services would do better as pure API's that you could write your own interfaces for. Why are apps always bound to their interfaces? For example when trying to get from point A to point B it would be nice to not have to choose between 3 car services or a bus or whatever, you just say what you want annd the services compete to bring you the service. This is so broken it is almost backwards. You should set your criteria and reverse the search. We will have autonomous vehicles soon and the question is how can these kinds of services be transparent for us? I want Tesla, Reach Now, Bird scooters etc to just solve it - and I don't want to have to switch between many apps to solve that use case. And that's just one example. There are many examples where the interfaces overconstrain the solution space.

